Concepts section overhaul (mirror project) (#296)
pinot-contrib/pinot-docs: basics/concepts/segment-threshold.md

---

> description: In this Apache Pinot concepts guide, we'll learn how segment threshold works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how segment thresholds work in Pinot.
```

---

> # Segment Threshold

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Segment threshold
```

The segment threshold determines when a segment is committed in real-time tables.

> When data is first ingested from a streaming provider like Kafka, it gets stored in a consuming segment. 
> The data in the consuming segment is stored on the disk of the server(s) that are processing a particular partition from the streaming provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When data is first ingested from a streaming provider like Kafka, Pinot stores the data in a consuming segment. 

This segment is on the disk of the server(s) processing a particular partition from the streaming provider.
```

> However, it's not until a segment is committed that the segment is written to the [deep store](https://docs.pinot.apache.org/basics/components/deep-store). 

Reviewer: and then the segment is written to deep store?

Reviewer: i may be missing something here--did we say something earlier that may make folks think that a segment would be written somewhere before it's committed to something?

> The segment threshold decides when that should happen.

Reviewer: The segment threshold specifies the number of days? between when a segment is first ingested and when it's written to deep store?

if yes, think we can simplify lines 9-13 a bit more

> ## Why should we care about it?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why is the segment threshold important?
```

> We care about the segment threshold because we want to make sure that our segments are a reasonable size.
> 
> * Queries are processed at the segment level, so if segments are too small it may result in higher query latencies as there is increased overhead when processing queries (in terms of number of threads spawned, meta data processing, etc).
> 
> 
> * If they're too big, this may result in servers running out of memory. If a server is restarted the consuming segment will need to start consuming from the first row again, which will cause lag between Pinot and the streaming provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The segment threshold is important because it ensures segments are a reasonable size. 

When queries are processed, smaller segments may increase query latency due to more overhead (number of threads spawned, meta data processing, and so on). 

Larger segments may cause servers to run out of memory. When a server is restarted, the consuming segment must start consuming from the first row again, causing a lag between Pinot and the streaming provider.
```
